Sphinx Doc: advanced installation documentation (#1571)
alpaka-group/alpaka: docs/source/basic/install.rst

Installation
============

.. code-block::

  # Clone alpaka from github.com

>   git clone https://github.com/alpaka-group/alpaka

Reviewer: Maybe we should recommend using the stable branch here?

Author: We have no stable branch. We can only checkout the last release by it's version number.

Author: `git clone --branch 0.8.0 https://github.com/alpaka-group/alpaka.git`

Reviewer: Yes, that is what I meant.

  cd alpaka
  mkdir build && cd build
  cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/install/ ..
  cmake --install .

Tests and Examples
++++++++++++++++++

**Build and run examples:**

.. code-block::

  # ..
  cmake -Dalpaka_BUILD_EXAMPLES=ON ..
  cmake --build . -t vectorAdd
  ./example/vectorAdd/vectorAdd # execution

**Build and run tests:**

.. code-block::

  # ..
  cmake -DBUILD_TESTING=ON ..
  cmake --build .
  ctest

**Enable accelerators:**

``alpaka`` uses different accelerators to execute kernels on different processors. To use a specific accelerator in ``alpaka``, two steps are required.

1. Enable the accelerator during the ``CMake`` configuration time of the project.
2. Select a specific accelerator in the source code.

> By default, no accelerator is enabled because some combination of compilers and accelerator does not work, see the table of `supported compiler <https://github.com/alpaka-group/alpaka#supported-compilers>`_. To enable an accelerator, you must set a cmake flag via ``cmake .. -DALPAKA_ACC_<acc>_ENABLE=ON`` when you create a new build. The following example shows how to enable the CUDA accelerator and build an ``alpaka`` project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, no accelerator is enabled because some combinations of compilers and accelerators do not work, see the table of `supported compilers <https://github.com/alpaka-group/alpaka#supported-compilers>`_. To enable an accelerator, you must set a CMake flag via ``cmake .. -DALPAKA_ACC_<acc>_ENABLE=ON`` when you create a new build. The following example shows how to enable the CUDA accelerator and build an ``alpaka`` project:
```

.. code-block::

  # create build folder
  mkdir build && cd build
  # run cmake configure with enable CUDA backend
  cmake -DALPAKA_ACC_GPU_CUDA_ENABLE=ON ..
  # compile source code
  cmake --build .

In the overview of :doc:`cmake arguments </advanced/cmake>` you will find all CMake flags for activating the different accelerators. How to select an accelerator in the source code is described on the :doc:`example page </basic/example>`.

.. warning::

  If an accelerator is selected in the source code that is not activated during ``CMake`` configuration time, a compiler error occurs.

.. hint::

>   When the test or examples are activated, the ``alpaka`` ``CMake`` also automatically activates the ``alpaka serial backend``, as it is needed for many tests. Therefore, the tests are run with the ``serial backend`` by default. If you want to test another backend, you have to activate it at ``CMake`` configuration time, for example the ``HIP`` backend: ``cmake .. -DBUILD_TESTING=ON -DALPAKA_ACC_GPU_HIP_ENABLE=ON``. The ``alpaka`` tests use a selector algorithm to choose a specific accelerator for the test cases. The selector works with accelerator priorities. Therefore, it is recommended to enable only one accelerator for a build to make sure that the right one is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When the test or examples are activated, the ``alpaka`` build system automatically activates the ``serial backend``, as it is needed for many tests. Therefore, the tests are run with the ``serial backend`` by default. If you want to test another backend, you have to activate it at ``CMake`` configuration time, for example the ``HIP`` backend: ``cmake .. -DBUILD_TESTING=ON -DALPAKA_ACC_GPU_HIP_ENABLE=ON``. The ``alpaka`` tests use a selector algorithm to choose a specific accelerator for the test cases. The selector works with accelerator priorities. Therefore, it is recommended to enable only one accelerator for a build to make sure that the right one is used.
```
